= Numerouno

* http://github.com/brentsnook/numerouno

English natural language parser for numbers.

* Parse 'five' to return 5
* Parse 'seven hundred and fifty two billion, four hundred and twenty million, sixty thousand and forty two' to return 752,420,060,042
* Parse 'siebenundzwanzig' to have it fail because it doesn't recognise German.

Recognises numbers in the trillions.

== Installation

  sudo gem install numerouno

=== Building the Gem yourself

Grab the code from github:

  git clone git://github.com/brentsnook/numerouno.git
  cd numerouno
  rake install_gem

== Use

Just require numerouno to add magical number parsing powers to your strings:

  require 'numerouno'
  'sixty five'.as_number

Or if you're a sook who doesn't like the idea of String being opened up:

  require 'numerouno-parsing'
  Numerouno.parse 'sixty five'

== How does it all work?

The English language has explicit rules for expressing numbers. Numeruno attempts to recognise strings based on these rules.

Check out http://wiki.github.com/brentsnook/numerouno for details.

== What is it good for?

The main serving suggestion is to toss it with Chronic[http://chronic.rubyforge.org/] and Cucumber[http://cukes.info/] for an even tastier BDD salad.

== License

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 Brent Snook http://fuglylogic.com

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
